---
Layout:
Title: "Hero page"
Date: "2021-03-23"
---



# Hero-page

## Introduction

### Creating a hero page image is not an easy task, as you need to pay attention to many things.

The hero image needs to cover the whole view size
The content on top of the hero image needs to be centered.
The hero text needs to be highly visible which, in most cases, requires some kind of filter.
The hero image needs to look good on all screen sizes.

## body

### Basics of Hero page

Set up the HTML
Center the content with flexbox
Style the text
Style the buttons
Test the hero section on different view sizes
Put the code together

## My struggles

Today i spended my day on the project that was given to us by Moral, i learned so much from the tutorial that Moral gave us today because i was strugging to do media queries for small screen. After the tutorial Moral showed us, i managed to do it on my own. 

Also applying CSS to the selectors is one of my struggle. But i was busy trying to apply styles to my project today just to understand how css works and to know revelant/apopriate properties. Learned that you cannot just use properties anywhere. Every property has its own purpose.

Adding buttons it is simple but to make them on the flexbox properties is not as easy as it looks. Aligning them on the same line was the hardest thing i have done to my project. Spended most of the time trying to align them.

## Conclusion
#### (Google search)

The vw and vh units ensure that the hero image covers the entire viewport size.
Flexbox and the text-align property center the content on top of the hero image.
The ::before pseudo-element and absolute positioning make it possible to apply the brightness filter only to the background image (but not to the content shown on top of it). In this way, we can darken the hero image to provide the white hero text with sufficient color contrast and make it easy to read.
The relative units (rem) and adjusted margins make it sure that the hero image looks good on all viewport sizes.