---
Layout:
Title: "React Dom"
Date: "2021-07-27"
---

# What is react DOM?

The react package holds the react source for components, state, props and all the code that is react. The react-dom package as the name implies is the glue between React and the DOM . Often, you will only use it for one single thing: mounting your application to the index.

# What is react dom used for?

What is ReactDOM? ReactDOM is a package that provides DOM specific methods that can be used at the top level of a web app to enable an efficient way of managing DOM elements of the web page. ReactDOM provides the developers with an API containing the following methods and a few more.

# How do I get rid of the DOM element in react?

React is all about manipulating state to trigger rerenders of the DOM. Instead of arbitrarily removing the element from the DOM like you would in jQuery, you should update the state by filtering out the item from props. items which will trigger a rerender of the DOM with the item removed.

# What does react Router Dom do?

A tool that allows you to handle routes in a web app, using dynamic routing. Dynamic routing takes place as the app is rendering on your machine, unlike the old routing architecture where the routing is handled in a configuration outside of a running app.

# How do you use the route Dom in react Router?

The render prop function has access to all the same route props (match, location and history) as the component render prop. 
import React from "react"; 
import ReactDOM from "react-dom";
 import { BrowserRouter as Router, Route } from "react-router-dom";.