---
Layout:
Title: "D3 methods"
Date: "2021-09-07"
---

## Data Driven Documents methods

1. select() method
2. append()
3. text()
4. selectAll() 
5. data() 
6. enter()
7. style()
8. attr() 

### 1. select() functions/methods

Is used to select the first element that matches the specified selector string. If any element is not matched then it returns the empty selection. If multiple elements are matched with the selector then only the first matching element will be selected.

### 2. append() 

Is used to append a new element to the HTML tag name as given in the parameters to the end of the element. If the type that is given is a function then it must be evaluated for each element that is in the selection. 

### 3. text() 

Is used to set the text content to the specified value of the selected elements thus, it replaces any existing child elements. If the value that is given is constant than all elements will be given that constant value.

### 4. selectAll() 

Is used to select all the element that matches the specified selector string. Parameters: This function accepts single parameter HTML tag as a parameter. Return Value: This function returns the selected elements.

### 5. data() 

Is used to join the specified array of data to the selected DOM elements and return the updated selection.
 
 ### 6. enter()

It appends a circle to each element in the enter selection and sets their opacity to 0.25.

### 7. style()

Is used to style the specified node(attribute) with the specified name(Value). In this, if the node has an inline style with the specified name, its value is returned and if the node has not an inline style, the calculated value is returned.

### 8. attr()

1. attr() is used to change an element's attributes.
2. attr() requires it be given two values: The attribute to be changed, and the new value for the specified attribute.
