---
Layout:
Title: "Recap"
Date: "2021-05-20"
---
# Introduction

So today im going to talk about few things that i have learned over passed few months.
So im going to select few things that i have learned or should i say know better which are : the three laguages, for loop, if/else statements and classes from OOP.
So im going to start with the three languages that we learned up to so far.

# Body

The three languages that im talking about are: HTML, CSS and JS.

HTML - is a hyper text mark-up language.
- Its a laguage for creating a webpage.
- It described the structure of a web page.
- Consists of series of elements.
- Elements that tells the browser how to display the contents.

CSS - is a cascading style sheet.
- It is used to style your webpages.
- We include designs
- We include layouts
- Displays of variation of devices and screen sizes.

JS - Its a programming language of web.
-We use it to program the behaviour of the web pages.

## Second thing on my selected list is for loop

#### Trying to do a cycle of for loop.
 So im gonna try to do a for loop to see if i still remember...
 
 const n = 5
 so here im trying to loop from 1 to 5 and to see if i can display text 5 times.
 

Remember you when creating a loop, you have to declare your initial expression first
 for (let i = 1;
 
From here, this is the part where we evaluate our condition, simply means we test our condition. 
We test if our conditon if it is true or false.
So if our condition is true, the loo is executed. That means the test will run again and again untill the condition is false.
And when the condition is false, the loop will be terminated.
i <= n;

Now, we update our initial expression. By doing so we gonna increment our i.
Simply means we are adding 1 as long as our condition is executed, until our condition is terminated.
i++)

This is our loop
for (let i = 1; i <= n; i++) {
console.log(i)

## The third topic 

#### Now classes from OOP.

- We use the keyword class to create a class.
- Always add a method costructor()
- This is what we call object constructor function

class Person {
    constructor(name, surname) {
        this.name = name;
        this.surname = surname;
    }
    getName() {
        return this.name;
    };
    getSurname() {
        return this.surname;
    }
}

let Person1 = new Person("Samuel", "Ramollo");
let Person2 = new Person("Peter", "Kole");

console.log(Person1.getName());
console.log(Person1.getSurname());